[ORCA-3467] Orchestration and path resource documentation (#501)
PagerDuty/terraform-provider-pagerduty: website/docs/r/event_orchestration_service.html.markdown

description: |-
  Creates and manages a Service Orchestration for a Service.
---

# pagerduty_event_orchestration_service

When integrations exist on a service, [Service Orchestrations](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/event-orchestration#service-orchestrations) can be used to evaluate incoming events against each of its rules, beginning with the rules in the `"start"` set. When a matching rule is found, it can modify and enhance the event and can route the event to another set of rules within this Service Orchestration for further processing. As a prerequisite, please ensure the service is set to evaluate orchestrations using the [Service Orchestration Active Status endpoint](https://developer.pagerduty.com/api-reference/855659be83d9e-update-the-service-orchestration-active-status-for-a-service)

## Example of configuring a Service Orchestration
 This example shows creating `team`, `user`, `escalation policy` and `service` resources followed by the `service orchestration` resource. In this example the user has defined the service orchestration with nested rulesets.
 The `start` set rule in this example routes to another set.

>  `catch_all` with empty `actions` block suppresses the alerts that do not match any rules. Other `actions` like `annotate`, `severity`, `priority`, `variables`, `extractions`, `webhooks`, `process automation` can be set in `catch_all` block.

Author: As far the mention of paid feature, I tried to mention that the account requires Digital Operations plan and or top off as part of Business / Professional plan in order to add nested rulesets. I felt it was  making the comment section bloated. Also noticing that the [Event Intelligence](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/event-intelligence#advanced-event-automation) KB page and [Orchestration](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/event-orchestration) page does not mention about nested rulesets being a paid feature, I think it is better to leave it off of the  configuration comment section.

          url = "https://our-slack-listerner.test/canary-notification"
          auto_send = true
          parameters {
            key = "channel"
            value = "#my-team-channel"
          }
          parameters {
            key = "message"
            value = "something is wrong with the canary deployment"
          }
          headers {
            key = "X-Notification-Source"
            value = "PagerDuty Incident Webhook"
          }
        }
      }
    }
    rules {
      label = "Never bother the on-call for info-level events outside of work hours"
      conditions {
        expression = "event.severity matches 'info' and not (now in Mon,Tue,Wed,Thu,Fri 09:00:00 to 17:00:00 America/Los_Angeles)"
      }
      actions {
        suppress = true
      }
    }
  }
  catch_all {
    actions { }
  }
}
```
## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `service` - (Required) ID of the Service to which this Service Orchestration belongs to.
* `sets` - (Required) A Service Orchestration must contain at least a "start" set, but can contain any number of additional sets that are routed to by other rules to form a directional graph.

> * `catch_all` - (Required) When none of the rules match an event, the event will be routed according to the catch_all settings.

Reviewer: **Blocker:** This is a Service Orchestration the `catch_all` cannot do routing. Maybe this instead?

```suggestion
* `catch_all` - (Required) the `catch_all` actions will be applied if an Event reaches the end of any set without matching any rules in that set.
```

### Sets (`sets`) supports the following:
* `id` - (Required) The ID of this set of rules. Rules in other sets can route events into this set using the rule's `route_to` property.

> * `rules` - (Optional) The service orchestration evaluates Events against these Rules, one at a time, and routes each Event based on the first rule that matches. If no rules are provided as part of Terraform configuration, the API returns empty list of rules.

Reviewer: **Blocker:** This isn't a Router so the phrase "routes each event" doesn't seem quite right to me. Maybe this instead?

* `rules` - (Optional) The Service Orchestration evaluates Events against these Rules, one at a time, and applies all the actions for first rule it finds where the event matches the rule's conditions. If no rules are provided as part of Terraform configuration, the API returns empty list of rules.

### Rules (`rules`) supports the following:
* `label` - (Optional) A description of this rule's purpose.
* `conditions` - (Optional) Each of these conditions is evaluated to check if an event matches this rule. The rule is considered a match if any of these conditions match. If none are provided, the event will `always` match against the rule.
* `actions` - (Required) Actions that will be taken to change the resulting alert and incident, when an event matches this rule.
* `disabled` - (Optional) Indicates whether the rule is disabled and would therefore not be evaluated.

### Conditions (`conditions`) supports the following:
* `expression`- (Required) A [PCL condition](https://developer.pagerduty.com/docs/ZG9jOjM1NTE0MDc0-pcl-overview) string.

### Actions (`actions`) supports the following:

> * `route_to` - (Required) The ID of the target Service for the resulting alert.

Reviewer: **Blocker:** `route_to` is optional for service orchs & this text seems to be for the router. Maybe this wording taken from the API docs instead?

```suggestion
* `route_to` - (Optional) The ID of a Set from this Service Orchestration whose rules you also want to use with event that match this rule.
```

  * `auto_send` - (Optional) When true, PagerDuty's servers will automatically send this webhook request as soon as the resulting incident is created. When false, your incident responder will be able to manually trigger the Webhook via the PagerDuty website and mobile app.
  * `headers` - (Optional) Specify custom key/value pairs that'll be sent with the webhook request as request headers.
    * `key` - (Required) Name to identify the header
    * `value` - (Required) Value of this header
  * `parameters` - (Optional) Specify custom key/value pairs that'll be included in the webhook request's JSON payload.
    * `key` - (Required) Name to identify the parameter
    * `value` - (Required) Value of this parameter
* `severity` - (Optional) sets Severity of the resulting alert. Allowed values are: `info`, `error`, `warning`, `critical`
* `event_action` - (Optional) sets whether the resulting alert status is trigger or resolve. Allowed values are: `trigger`, `resolve`
* `variables` - (Optional) Populate variables from event payloads and use those variables in other event actions.
  * `name` - (Required) The name of the variable

>   * `path` - (Required) Path to a field in an event, in dot-notation. This supports both PagerDuty Common Event Format [PD-CEF](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/pd-cef) and non-CEF fields. Eg: Use `event.summary` for the `summary` CEF field. Use raw_event.fieldname to read from the original event `fieldname` data.

Reviewer: **Not a blocker:** I love that we're giving some examples of paths here. I also wonder if we could/should link to the PCL Path documentation here: https://developer.pagerduty.com/docs/ZG9jOjM1NTE0MDc0-pcl-overview#paths

  * `type` - (Required) Only `regex` is supported
  * `value` - (Required) The Regex expression to match against. Must use valid [RE2 regular expression](https://github.com/google/re2/wiki/Syntax) syntax.
* `extractions` - (Optional) Replace any CEF field or Custom Details object field using custom variables.

>   * `template` - (Optional) A value that will be used to populate the `target` field. The configuration can include variables extracted from the payload by using string interpolation. Eg: If you have defined a variable called `hostname` you can set extraction `template` to `High CPU on variables.hostname server` to use the variable in extraction.  This field can be ignored for `regex` based replacements.

Reviewer: **Blocker:** Missing curly braces within the template. In this case, I think re-using the wording from the UI's help modal might be nice!

![Event Orchestration 2022-05-20 15-14-37](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1933/169619168-5c8f950d-2348-4844-87b8-93a8ffba2a66.png)

```suggestion
  * `template` - (Optional) A string that will be used to populate the `target` field. You can reference variables or event data within your template using double curly braces. For example:
     <br />Use variables named `ip` and `subnet` with a template like: `{{variables.ip}}/{{variables.subnet}}`
     <br />Combine the event severity & summary with template like: `{{event.severity}}: {{event.summary}}`
```

>   * `target` - (Required) The PagerDuty Common Event Format [PD-CEF](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/pd-cef) field that will be set with the value from the `template` or based on `regex` and `source` fields.

Reviewer: **Not a blocker:** I'd definitely recommend `target` be moved to the top of the list because it's the only required field. This one is especially tricky to document, though, because `template` and `regex`+`source` are mutually exclusive. But having this sentence at the top is likely to help.

>   * `regex` - (Optional) The conditions that need to be met for the extraction to happen. Must use valid [RE2 regular expression](https://github.com/google/re2/wiki/Syntax) syntax. This field can be ignored for `template` based replacements.

Reviewer: **Blocker:** I don't think this is quite right. Maybe we can re-use the wording from the API docs here?

```suggestion
  * `regex` - (Optional) A [RE2 regular expression](https://github.com/google/re2/wiki/Syntax) that will be matched against field specified via the `source` argument. If the regex contains one or more capture groups, their values will be extracted and appended together. If it contains no capture groups, the whole match is used. This field can be ignored for `template` based extractions.
```

>   * `source` - (Optional) Field where the data is being copied from. Must be a PagerDuty Common Event Format [PD-CEF](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/pd-cef) field. This field can be ignored for `template` based replacements.

Reviewer: **Blocker:** Again, trying to re-use the API doc wording here. Also seems worth linking to the PCL Path docs. Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
  * `source` - (Optional) The path to the event field where the `regex` will be applied to extract a value. You can use any valid [PCL path](https://developer.pagerduty.com/docs/ZG9jOjM1NTE0MDc0-pcl-overview#paths) like `event.summary` and you can reference previously-defined variables using a path like `variables.hostname`. This field can be ignored for `template` based extractions.
```

This example shows a Service Orchestration that has nested sets: a rule in the "start" set has a `route_to` action pointing at the "step-two" set.

The `catch_all` actions will be applied if an Event reaches the end of any set without matching any rules in that set. In this example the `catch_all` doesn't have any `actions` so it'll leave events as-is.

```hcl
resource "pagerduty_team" "engineering" {
  name = "Engineering"
}

resource "pagerduty_user" "example" {
  name  = "Earline Greenholt"
  email = "125.greenholt.earline@graham.name"
  teams = [pagerduty_team.engineering.id]
}

resource "pagerduty_escalation_policy" "foo" {
  name      = "Engineering Escalation Policy"
  num_loops = 2

  rule {
    escalation_delay_in_minutes = 10
    target {
      type = "user"
      id   = pagerduty_user.example.id
    }
  }
}

resource "pagerduty_service" "example" {
  name                    = "My Web App"
  auto_resolve_timeout    = 14400
  acknowledgement_timeout = 600
  escalation_policy       = pagerduty_escalation_policy.example.id
  alert_creation          = "create_alerts_and_incidents"
}

data "pagerduty_priority" "p1" {
  name = "P1"

> }

Reviewer: **Kudos:** Yay!! Makes this example super realistic _and_ copy/pastable for people wanting to learn more 🎉
